>> Scott Moss: So basically,
there's a couple of things you kinda
already talked so
much about a lot of stuff, but
I'm just gonna go into the stuff
that I didn't talk about.
Which are just, okay,
we kinda know what a query looks like.
We talked about how GraphQL is different
than rest, but how do you use it?
Can we use modern fetching
libraries like window.fetch?
If you still use things like Axios or
things like that,
can we use that to do GraphQL?
What are we actually
sending up to the server?
What does that actually look like?
Yeah, that's what we're gonna talk about.
So like I said, everything's a post,
it always has been.
And what you're basically sending up to
the server is something that looks like
this, right?
So here's an example of me using
fetch to do a GraphQL query.
I have my URL,
my query is literally just a string.
My query does not have a name,
so it's like an anonymous query.
Here's the query I wanna do,
it's a user query.
Here are all the fields I wanna use there.
And, as you can see,
I'm just doing a post request, and
I'm just stringifying that query on
the body as the field called query,
and that's it, that's a GraphQL request.
You don't need anything special to
actually send GraphQL requests to
a GraphQL server,
you already know tools is just fetch and
you just put your query
inside of a string.
Now we're not gonna do that, [LAUGH] but
this is how you could do it,
it's very simple.
We're gonna use some tooling on a front
end to make it a lot better and
simpler and easier for us.
But as you can see,
it's really not that special.
So the one thing I did
wanna talk about is,
I said that everything is a post request.
But the other thing is that everything
is also a 200 status code, even errors,
well it doesn't care about status codes.
In reality status codes are really for
machines really if a browser sees
a status code to show a specific error.
But if you're passing an error,
if you wanna indicate some error happened
from the back end to the front end,
you're probably gonna send some specific
message with a code or something anyway.
So GraphQL just takes
that to another level.
So everything's a 200, even if you threw
an error or even if some error happened.
But what you can do is GraphQL has
different fields on it in which you can
put certain things.
So the result of your query is
always gonna be in the data field.
If there's an error, there's gonna be
an array called errors that have all
the error messages, but
it's always gonna be a 200.
So take that as a grain of salt,
all the logic that you've ever
written checking for
status codes over 300 is pointless now.
GraphQL is always gonna be a 200,
it's always gonna be a post request, but
now you're gonna be checking the payload
of the data to see if there was an error.
Like, hey, is there a result.errors
on here or is there a result.data?
You're gonna be looking at that
to determine what the error was.
And then on the backend, you can send
back whatever you want for the error.
There are different standards and
things that you can pick up or
create yourself, but you can just
send back whatever JSON you want.
And that's how you
determine what an error is.
So obviously, the downsides of that
is that you're no longer gonna get
a red error message in Chrome.
When you actually get an error on
the server, it'll be like, post 200,
everything's good.
So you're gonna be debugging, you're like,
man, I don't know why this
isn't showing up on the screen.
It got a 200 everything looks good.
Well actually go look at the result
of that payload, it's a 200,
but, it actually says errors inside of it.
So that's something to keep in
mind is that like, browsers and
clients won't respond, to it, because
it doesn't know that it has an error,
because the status quo is always 200.
Unless you are using a GraphQL
specific client that knows to
look at error pillowed on that result and
then would show something,
so I thing that is confusing a lot
of people in the past, me included.
So, important to know.